Welcome back everyone.
And this lecture we're going to give a brief overview an introduction to the YOLO object detection algorithm.
So this is one of the state of the art image detection algorithms and it's known as yellow which stands
for you only look once Ulo can view an image and then draw bounding boxes over what it perceives as
identified classes.
So for example after we run yellow in the next series of lectures we'll be able to take in an image
and then draw bounding boxes against a variety of classes and notice how well Ulo can actually perform
when objects are actually obstructed from view.
So in this course we're going to be using a version 3 of the yellow object detection algorithm which
at the time of filming is the latest version of this algorithm and if further improves upon the original
implementation in both speed and accuracy of detection.
So then the question arises what makes yellow different than other detection algorithms prior detection
systems would repurpose classifiers or localizes to perform detection.
And what they would usually do is they would apply the model to an image at multiple locations and multiple
scales where they would then take high scoring regions of the image and consider those as detections
YOLO uses actually a totally different approach which is where it gets its name from what they actually
do is we're going to apply a single neural network to the full image.
So we only look at it once then this network divides the image into regions and predicts bounding boxes
and probabilities for each region so that actual division is happening within the neural network so
that it only needs to view the image one time and then these bounding boxes are weighted by the predictive
probabilities and in the next lecture we'll actually see that we can have our own threshold over a predictive
probability.
So let's say we're trying to detect a person in an image the YOLO algorithm or report back that it's
70 percent sure that a bounding box contains a person.
So we can decide is a certain threshold for how sure the YOLO algorithm is for the election.
So if we want our model to be a little more flexible we can have something like 50 percent necessary
threshold in order to detect an object.
And that way we can maybe the task harder to find people in the image now YOLO has several advantages
over classifier based systems.
It looks at the whole image a test time.
So its predictions are informed by the global context in the image not just a particular region.
It also makes predictions of a single network evaluation.
Unlike other popular systems such as our CNN which requires thousands of network evaluations for just
a single image and that actually makes Ulo extremely popular because it is able to perform much much
faster than other algorithms so it performs more than 1000 times faster than our CNN and 100 times faster
than any other version of our and known as Fast Our CNN.
So it's 100 times faster than the fast version of our CNN which is just another network for object detection.
Now in the next lecture we're going to load an already trained Iolo model and see if we can use it with
either image or video data.
And we set up an easy to use notebook all we need to do is download the model Waite's file which we're
going to walk through the entire process in the very next lecture.
We'll see it there.